Nikolai Grozhny: An Interactive Tragedy

MODULE A


SCENE A1: Arrival (always I.i)

Triggered when: the game begins.

Princess Anastasia has just arrived at the Imperial Palace in Kolyagrad
on Novy Mir.  She was summoned from off-world by her father, who has an
important announcement to make.  That's all Anya knows.

Bits and pieces of Anya's backstory filter in as Anya wanders around the
palace.  Objects, people, and places trigger 

Advance to A2 when: A1a and A1b complete.


SUBSCENE A1a: Backstory

Triggered when: the game begins.

Setting: the Imperial Palace (all of it).

Cast: PC (Anya)

Extras: Guards

Let the player wander randomly through the palace.  She's just arrived from
off-world.  An assortment of objects and people around the palace will trigger 
flashbacks when she REMEMBERs them, and several of these flashbacks are 
mandatory -- if she doesn't have them by a certain point, we'll contrive to 
make them happen, or else hold up the advancement of time until she does.  
Anya starts as something of a blank slate -- we haven't learned her backstory, 
after all -- and the events in the flashbacks fill in the details about her, 
and modify her attributes, appearance, and relationships with other characters.

Advance to A1b when: Anya returns to her quarters after completing AF1, and 
she's met at least one sibling.


SUBSCENE A1b: Preparing

Triggered when: A1a complete.

Setting: Anya's quarters

Cast: Anya, Spouse

Anya and her spouse have a conversation that reveals the state of their
relationship (wandering off into AF2 if necessary), and Anya chooses an 
outfit for the announcement and ball.

Decisions:
  Sp+
  Sp=
  Sp-

Finished when: Anya finishes AF2 and dresses for the announcement.


MANDATORY FLASHBACK AF1: Senior Ball

Triggered when: 

Setting: Imperial Academy, twenty-five years ago

Cast: Anya, Irina, Ludmilla, Oleg, Ruslan, Gennady, Huseyin

Divided into three subscenes: accepting an invitation, answering a 
request to reconsider, and attending the ball itself.

In the past (come up with a precise number of years ago), Anya attended
the Imperial Academy Gymnasium, as all the children of the Imperial Family 
did.  Her best friend was Irina, and the two of them were close to the 
"ORG" trio of Oleg, Ruslan, and Gennady.  Millie had a crush on Gennady, 
who was attracted to Irina, and Irina and Anya both thought that Ruslan, 
the son of a knight, was utterly gorgeous.

(Easter egg: Nikolai attended King's Academy in Jordan, and patterned
IAG after it.  Somewhere on campus there are portraits of Frank Boyden,
Eric Widmer, and the first headmaster of IAG side-by-side-by-side.)

The senior ball was an extremely important moment in Anya's life to that
point, as it affects who she later marries, and sets the tone for her
relationships with her most closest confidantes.  Ruslan and Gennady 
both ask her to the dance, and there's the possibility (not mentioned
in the program text) of Anya asking Oleg or Irina (who she'll have to
ask more than once to get her intention through).  Whichever date she 
first tentatively sets up, her father will ask her to go with Prince 
Huseyin of the Dar al-Islam, eldest son of the Khalifat, for "the good of 
the Empire."  

If she accepts the invitation from Ruslan, and sticks with it, she 
pisses off Nikolai (because Ruslan is beneath her station, and he asked
her to go with Huseyin) and Irina (because Irina wanted him).  She has
a wonderful time at the dance with Ruslan, however.  Huseyin forever
drops out of the picture as a potential spouse, Gennady and Millie pair
off, and Oleg is quietly disappointed.  (N-/0, I-, Sp!=H, Lsp=G, R+)

If she accepts the invitation from Gennady, and sticks with it, Ludmilla
is angry with her

If she invites Oleg, Nikolai takes 

If she dumps her date to go with the prince, Nikolai is pleased with her,

If she turns down Prince Huseyin to go to the ball with Irina, Nikolai
throws an utter fit.  Oleg is supportive, 

Triggered when: Anya encounters any of her possible spouses (Olga, Irina,
Ruslan, Gennady), or Millie or Ambassador Ozsoyoglu, or REMEMBERs any of
the above, or enters the bathroom in her quarters, or a sibling brings up
the topic of their teenage years.

Consequences: 
  -- Go with Ruslan: 
  -- Go with Gennady: 
  -- Go with Oleg: 
  -- Go with Huseyin: 

SUBSCENE AF1a: Invitation

SUBSCENE AF1b: Answer

SUBSCENE AF1c: Ball


MANDATORY FLASHBACK AF2: Let's Talk About Our Relationship


SCENE A2: The Announcement (always I.ii)

Triggered when: scene A1 ends.

Setting: Throne Room

Cast: PC (Anya), Spouse, Nikolai, Ludmilla, Pyotr

Extras: Aleksandr, Vasily, Guards

Everyone has been summoned to the Throne Room for Nikolai's announcement.
Nikolai announces a comprehensive plan for galactic peace: the Empire and
the minor powers are to join in a Galactic Federation, with Nikolai at
the head.  The Empire is to be divided into smaller independent states
of roughly the size of the DAI and the Public Sector, each ruled by one
of Nikolai's children.  Nikolai calls forth his children to swear fealty
to the new Federation and homage to Nikolai.

Sander and Vasily pledge their loyalty to the Federation, and receive the
largest and choicest portions of the Empire.  Anya has the third chance 
to speak.  If she doesn't speak out, then Fleet Marshal Harada interrupts
to argue that Nikolai's plan is foolish, and is banished for it.  Whatever
happens, Pyotr stomps off in a huff, and Ludmilla pledges her undying love.

Anya's territory will depend on her Nikolai relationship, and the choices
she makes in responding to Nikolai.  She can follow Vasily and Sander's
lead, flatter Nikolai, quote Lear at him, or chew him out for his stupid
idea.  The latter will get her banished, as will a negative relationship.
A zero respect, or a broken marriage without a high respect, will get Anya 
appointed as Nikolai's assistant, without territory of her own.

Anya sits between her best friend (usually Irina) and her spouse, and has
opportunities to whisper to both during the ceremony.  Everyone files out
at the end of the ceremony, giving Anya a limited opportunity to get a
first reaction from others.

Advance to A3 when: Anya leaves the Throne Room.


SCENE A3: The Ball (always I.iii)

Triggered when: scene A3 ends.

Setting: Ballroom.

Cast: Just about everybody.

After the announcement, a grand ball is held.  Everyone who is anyone is at
the ball

Advance to A4 when: Anya has danced with Thalberg and at least three other
key players.


SCENE A4: Treason! (always I.iv)

Thalberg's coup 

Advance to A5 when:

Advance to A6 when:

Exit with result 00 when:


SCENE A5: Aftermath (always I.v)

Exit with result 01 when: 

Exit with result 10 when:


SCENE A6: Anya and Thalberg (always I.v)

Exit with result 11 when: 

Exit with result 00 when: Anya dies


Mandatory Flashback AF2: College Application Rag

Mandatory Flashback AF4: Teenage Anya and her father

Optional Flashback AF5: Olga Transitions (NB: mandatory if spouse == Olga)

Optional Flashback AF6: The death of Empress Aiko

Optional Flashback AF7: Little Anya and Little Rini

Optional Flashback AF8: Creepy Uncle Olaf

Optional Flashback AF9: ORG Yori Dango
