Nikolai Grozny: An Interactive Tragedy in Five Acts

CHARACTERS

Imperial Family:

Nikolai the Terrible (N)
  Fit 1, Wil 2, Com 0, Pop 2, Ski 2 (Amb 2, Hon 2)
[Empress Aiko, Nikolai's first wife, deceased]
Empress Oksana, Nikolai's second wife
  Fit -1, Wil 1, Com 0, Pop 1, Ski 2 (Amb 1, Hon 1)
Prince Vasily, eldest son but illegitimate (V)
  Fit 1, Wil 1, Com -1, Pop 0, Ski 1 (Amb 2, Hon 0)
  -- Sneaky and ambitious, jealous of Sander
Prince Aleksandr, Nikolai and Aiko's eldest child (S)
  Fit 0, Wil 1, Com 1, Pop 1, Ski 2 (Amb 2, Hon 2)
  -- Sander, the legitimate son, is seen as the rightful heir 
Princess Anastasia, Nikolai and Aiko's second child (A)
  -- The PC by default at the start of Module A
  -- Aiko died either in childbirth or shortly after Anya was born
  -- Personality determined by flashbacks in Act I
Princess Ludmilla, Nikolai and Oksana's first child (L)
  Fit -1, Wil 0, Com 2, Pop 1, Ski 0 (Amb 0, Hon 1)
Prince Pyotr, Nikolai and Oksana's youngest child (P)
  Fit 0, Wil 0, Com 1, Pop 2, Ski 1 (Amb -1, Hon 2)
  -- Easygoing and a free spirit

Anya's Childhood Friends:

Irina (I)
  Fit -1, Wil 0, Com 2, Pop 0, Ski 1 (Amb 0, Hon 1)
Countess Olga nee Oleg (O)
  Fit 1, Wil 0, Com 1, Pop -1, Ski 2 (Amb 0, Hon 2)
Sir Ruslan (R)
  Fit 2, Wil 0, Com 0, Pop 0, Ski 2 (Amb 1, Hon 2)
Gennady Vorshilov (G), later Fleet Marshal, and probably married to Millie
  Fit 1, Wil 2, Com -1, Pop 1, Ski 2 (Amb 2, Hon -1)
Prince Huseyin Ozturk of the DAI (H)
  Fit 0, Wil 1, Com 1, Pop 1, Ski 1 (Amb 1, Hon 1)

Imperial Officials:

Olaf Thalberg, Chief Marshal of the Imperial Forces
  Fit 
Gudrun Weinberg, Fleet Marshal, married to Sander
  Fit 2, Wil 
Ndiaye Harada, Fleet Marshal
[Gennady Voroshilov, Fleet Marshal, mentioned above]
Xiaoping Petrov, Prime Minister

Other Dignitaries:

Yilmaz Ozsoyoglu, DAI Ambassador
Marno, Larano Ambassador
V'Noran, V'Vortnu L'Gattu Ambassador
Z'zz B!Zizzik, N!Xoren Ambassador and delegate from the L.I.W.
Tsutomu Takahashi, Japanese Ambassador and delegate from the L.I.W.
Subhinda Feng, Popular Entertainer


ATTRIBUTES (64 bits)

All attributes on a -1 to +2 scale.
Definitely include:
  Fitness
  Compassion
  Skill
  Popularity
One or two of the following:
  Will
  Ambition
  Honor
  Valor

Fitness: -1 to +2 
Will: -1 to +2 (replace with Ambition? add Valor?)
Compassion: -1 to +2 (replace with Honor?  or *add* Honor?)
Popularity: -1 to +2
Skill: -1 to +2 (in chosen profession)

(Possibly limit the above to at most one being +2?)

Majors: Art History (at the Sorbonne), (Com+, Pop+, Fit-, Wil-, N+/-)
        Interstellar Policy (at Georgetown SFS), (Wil+, Pop+, Com-, N+/+)
        Humanoid Biology (at AIU), (Com+, Wil+, Pop-, N-/+)
        Military Science (at the Imperial Academy) (Fit+, Wil+, Com-, N+/++)

Spouse: Huseyin (Fit-, N+/x, Sp+ if AIU),
        Gennady (Wil-, Nx/+, L-),
        Irina (Wil+, N--/+, S-, Sp+ if Sorbonne),
        Olga (Wil+, Com+, Pop-, N--/-, S-, L-, Sp-- unless GU),
        Ruslan (Pop-, N--/-, I-, Sp- unless Academy),
        Thalberg (Wil+, Pop--, I-, O-, S--, L--, P--, N=-3/-2),
        Never married (Com-, N-/+),
        Undetermined

Marriage: broken, 
          strained, 
          happy, 
          ended

Relations with Nikolai: -3 to +3, or -4 for dead
Respect from Nikolai: -2 to +1, modifying overall Respect attribute

Relations with assorted characters: -1 to 1, or 2 for dead.

Faction: Self,
         Vasily,
         Aleksandr,
         Federation,
         DAI,
         Thalberg,
         Neutral,
         Undetermined

FACTIONS

Within the Empire:

Vasily (always)
Aleksandr (always), with Weinberg
Thalberg, if not foiled in A or D, with 40% of the fleet
Anya and Harada, if Anya isn't banished and doesn't leave
Gennady, using Ludmilla and Oksana as cover, if Anya is banished or leaves
Nikolai and the Federation, if Nikolai is roused to fight

Galaxy-Wide:

Empire: 3/7
DAI: 1/7
Larano: 1/7
Sekkani: 1/7 (Sagittarius dwarf)
Everyone else: 1/7
	-- L'Gattu
	-- N!xoren
	-- Japanese
	-- Minor human powers


OUTLINE

The story is divided into nine modules, A through H plus J, and a companion 
volume, module I, which contains an unlockable encyclopaedia.  Each module 
represents one act of the story.  The player will play five of the modules, 
in some order.  Modules will not be visited twice during the course of the 
game.  Each module has up to two variants and two playable characters.  At 
the start of a module's execution, the player will be prompted to enter a 
"result code" produced by an earlier module.  If the player doesn't enter a 
valid code, the game will start from a position impossible to produce through 
other play.  

The game starts with Module A, with Princess Anastasia as the viewpoint 
character.  Depending on the course of play, Anya may remain the viewpoint 
character throughout the game, or a later act may have a different viewpoint 
character.  It is possible to play any of Nikolai's five children or any of
Anya's closest friends.  

Each module has a number of different endings, and may also do things to a
64-bit internal state key that is passed from module to module, which keeps
track of what has happened thus far.  Each module has either two or three 
valid viewpoint characters, except for A, which is always Anastasia.  Modules 
may also have different beginnings, depending on what has gone before, and 
alternate text depending on circumstances.  Essentially, a module encapsulates 
a dozen or so different possible plot states, and reduces them to variations 
on a single unifying theme.

The game begins fifty years after Nikolai unified most of the galaxy under
his rule, with a startling proposal from Nikolai: the Empire is to be
divided among Nikolai's children, and the Empire, the DAI, and Larano space
are to form a Galactic Confederation charged with enforcing galactic peace.
That very night, Grand Admiral Thalberg attempts a coup.

A skillful player as Anastasia will foil Thalberg's coup and 

Any of Nikolai's five children may end the game on the throne, or Thalberg,
or even Nikolai, or (more likely) the galaxy may dissolve into chaos.  Anya
and Pyotr also have the possibility of ending up as president of a Galactic
Federation.  Nikolai is usually the tragic figure, but that may also turn
out to be Vasily, Anya, Aleksandr, or Vasily and Aleksandr jointly.



MODULE A

A: Thalberg's Coup (start of game)

Nikolai summons his children to announce the formation of a Galactic
Federation and a peace treaty.  Princess Anastasia, the PC, discovers
a plot by Grand Admiral Thalberg to depose Nikolai and seize power
himself.  She must foil the plot, warn the family and escape, or join
Thalberg.

Anya has some free time to wander around the palace before the court
ceremony involving the announcement.  As she does so, she experiences a 
series of flashbacks that fill in her backstory and set up her relationships 
with the other main characters: friends, family, spouse, even a few political 
figures.  The flashbacks also determine her attributes, and several mandatory 
flashbacks regulate the passage of time.

The first mandatory flashback allows time to move forward to the announcement
ceremony, where she has an opportunity to react to the announcement and
curry favor or piss off Nikolai.  A second mandatory flashback after the
announcement allows time to move forward to the ball thrown in honor of the
announcement, during which alliances begin to form, and Thalberg tries to
recruit Anya for his plot.  A third (and possibly fourth) mandatory flashback
ends the ball, after which Thalberg strikes.

Attribute changes:
  Too numerous to mention -- set any attribute to any value.

Outcomes: (MSB set == Thalberg's faction survives)
  000: N 1+/1+ after A5 -> B(A)
  001: N 1+/0- after A5 -> C(A)
  010: N 0-/0-, or married to Huseyin, after A5 -> C(O)
  011: Anya dies at any point without raising alarm -> E(S)
  100: Anya dies but raises the alarm -> B(P)
  101: Imperial Family escapes from A6 -> D(A)
  110: Res 1+ after A7 -> D'(A)
  111: Res 0- after A7 -> C(O)


MODULE B

B: Before the Storm (Anya or Pyotr)

In the wake of Thalberg's failed plot, Nikolai's partition plan goes into
effect, with Anya (or Pyotr, if Anya died heroically unveiling Thalberg's
plot) controlling one of the factions.  


MODULE C

C: Travels with Nikolai (Anya or Olga)


MODULE D

D: Space Combat (Anya or Ludmilla)
D': Nest of Vipers 


MODULE E

E: Grand Strategy (Anya or Sander)


MODULE F

F: Ground Combat
F': Showdown (Anya or Vasily)


MODULE G

G: War Torn Galaxy (Anya or Pyotr)
G': The Madness of Nikolai


MODULE H

H: Hamlet (Anya or Irina)
H': Agamemnon 


MODULE I

I: Encyclopaedia


MODULE J
J: Goetterdaemmerung
J': Julius Caesar
